---
title: "Evolution of Slang"
date: 2019-12-13T17:33:05+09:00
draft: false
---

<H1> Evolution of Slang </h1>

I have been very fascinated with Natural Language Processing and recently I have had the pleasure of studying the evolution of slang terms in online spaces. Slang is representative of community and informality between people and through mediums such as online forums it has had an increase in use and development. As a matter fact, in online communities slang has shown to shift in meaning faster than words that are common to standard english.. In this blog post, I provide from a linguistics background insight into slang and their qualities; I also highlight the interesting use cases that become available by studying slang. Most of my explanations are drawn from the research paper "TFW, DamnGina, Juvie, and Hotsie-Totsie: On the Linguistic and Social Aspects of Internet Slang" by Vivek Kulkarni, et al (https://arxiv.org/pdf/1712.08291.pdf). I also recently wrote a paper on slang and community specific terms (https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D19-5508/), however my paper explores the semantic shifts and statistical evaluation of slang terms. If you're interested in doing research related to slang please don't hesitate to reach out to me. 

<h2> Classifications and Patterns surrounding Slangs: </h2> 

An intrinsic quality to slang is that it does not adhere to conventional grammatical rules. However, in English slang terms show morphological traits that are while uncommon to Standard English (SE), are highly common in slang. These traits are classified as extra-grammatical.  Literature surrounding slang has broken down extra-grammatical morphological properties into sub-classifications. Four of the most popular classifications of slang are alphabetisms,  reduplicatives, blends and clippings. 

<h4> Alphebetisms </h4> 
Words that are abbreviations of extended phrases or concepts such as “lol” or “wtf” are alphabetisms. They fall under two sub-categories that are acronyms and initialisms. Acronyms are pronounced as a single unit, as is the case for “lol” or “rofl”. Whereas, initialisms are pronounced letter by letter. Examples of this include “hmu” and “wtf”. A general pattern between acronyms and initialisms is the inclusion and positioning of vowels. Words that sandwich vowels with consonants are likely to be acronyms. 

<h4> Blends </h4> 
Blends are terms that are combination of one or more existing words. Examples of these include “Brangelina”, “Brunch”, “Emoticon”. While the unified entities in blend intuitively communicate the word’s meaning as they are related in terms of both cooccurrence and semantics, there is no clear pattern available yet to predict which two words will produce a widely accepted blend. 

<h4> Clippings </h4> 
Clipping is a process in which a new word is formed by reducing a word’s lexeme. For instance the word “doc” is a shortened form of “doctor”.  The lexeme itself can be any part of the word, and there are primarily two types of clippings. “Doc” is fore (foreground) clipping, and “roach” from “cockroach” is a back (background) clipping. 

<h4> Reduplicatives </h4> 
Reduplicatives, also known as echo words, are words that share similar phonological properties. For instance the word “rolly-polly” or “easy-peasy”. 

<h4> Neologisms </h4> 
Neologisms are existing words that undergo transition of meaning. For instance the word “gay” was more synonymous with the term “happy” whereas now it is an indicator of one’s sexuality. More recently on social media, a term such as Karen which has traditionally been a name has transitioned into a mockery that is used to refer to a mother who would not vaccinate their kids.  

<h4> Trends </h4>
When comparing the morphological qualities of slang and Standard English (SE) researchers have observed a clear difference in morphological patterns. Most common prefixes of slang are often more culturally and racially charged, for instance the word “sex” in “sextini” or “fuck” in “fuckwit” are irregular prefixes whereas most common prefixes in SE are qualifers such as “un”, “pre”, etc. To better understand existing linguistic patterns in slang please read through the research paper linked by Vivek Kulkarni, et al. Also check out this notebook to see more statistical trends related to slang and community characteristics. https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/abhinavbhandari/RedditSlangAnalysis/blob/master/AffinityAnalysisIntroductoryNotebook.ipynb

<h2> Importance of Slang: </h2>
The real value of understanding statistical trends in slang is in being able to extract data from noisy text. Noisy text comprises of all forms of unconventional and informal textual data, primarily consisting of language exchanged on social media. Slang and community specific terms are the primary limiters of meaningful information extraction in noisy texts. Thus being able to accurately model and extract slang and community specific terms will help with a multitude of NLP features such as strengthening Named Entity Recognition systems, document type classification and context extraction. For instance the current state-of-art entity recognition systems rely on wikipedia pages to create entity links between two entities for a topic (test this here: http://babelfy.org/ and type in ffxiv). A limitation of this is that new entity links that are formed between topical terms will not be available until wikipedia pages are updated. However, online forums such as Reddit provide a very well organized data source for various topics as well as entity relations for slang terms in <b>real time</b>. For instance, recently in online spaces a US politician Mitch McConnell has been given the nickname "Moscow Mitch". However his wikipedia page does not consist of this nickname, whereas named entity recognition systems trained on Reddit data should be easily able to identify "Moscow Mitch" as a politician. 

<h3> Research Questions to pursue </h3>
Given that slang is such an enormous and under explored area of NLP research, I believe there are several research questions to pursue. Many of these questions have arisen from the result of doing my own work which I aim to follow on in the near future. 

<ol>
<li> How are slang terms diffused from one community to another? What is the user involvement? </li>
<li> How to identify slang terms and their classifications in an unsupervised manner? </li>
<li> What is the part of speech trend between high ranked community specific terms </li> 
</ol>

